.TH dgal 1
.SH NAME
\fBdgal\fR \- Read a problem-data-file and run a GALAHAD package on the result
.SH USAGE
.B dgal architecture package
[options]
.IR file[.data]
,

where 
.B architecture
is a string of the form machine.os.compiler 
indicating the machine/operating system/compiler combination to be used and
.B package
indicates the package required.

The name
.B architecture
must match that of one of the files in the directory 
$GALAHAD/bin/sys , while 
.B package 
may be one of
.LP
.TP 1i
.BI qpa
QPA for general quadratic programming using an active-set method
.TP
.BI qpb
QPB for general quadratic programming using an interior-point method
.TP
.BI qpc
QPC for general quadratic programming using a cross-over method
.TP
.BI eqp
EQP for equality-constrained quadratic programming

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B dgal 
reads a user-defined problem-data file, and runs one of the GALAHAD 
large-scale linear/quadratic programming packages on the result.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
.TP 1i
.BI \-s
Run the single precision version of the package. The default is
to run the double precision version.
.TP
.B \-h or \-\-help
Print a list of these options and stop execution.
.TP
.B \-k
Keep the executable after use. A second file newfile.data may then be
processed by issuing the command 
.ce 2

.B ./architecture.package < \fR newfile[.data] .
.ce 0

.TP
.B \-p
Profile the code (if possible).
.TP
.BI \-o " output"
Specify the 
.IR output
level, which must be one of
.B 0
(no output; the default)
.B 1
(a brief description of the steps performed)
.B -1
(a full debugging output, for experts only).
.TP
.BI \-l " secs"
Set a limit of
.IR secs
seconds on the GALAHAD run. The default is 99999999 seconds.
.SH FILES
.TP 20
.BI achitecture.package
executable output file created by dgal
.TP
.IB RUN package .SPC
user-supplied option specification file
.TP
.IB SOLUTION.d
file containing solution created by dgal
.TP
.IB SUMMARY.d
file containing summary of solution created by dgal
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The diagnostics produced by dgal itself are intended to be self-explanatory.
.SH "SEE ALSO"

N. I. M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph. L. Toint,
"GALAHAD - a library of thread-safe fortran 90 packages for large-scale 
nonlinear optimization",
.I ACM Transactions on Mathematic Software
.B 29
(4)
(2003) 353-372.

N. I. M. Gould and Ph. L. Toint,
"Numerical methods for large-scale non-convex quadratic programming",
in "Trends in Industrial and Applied Mathematics", 
(A. Siddiqi and M. Kocvara, eds.),
Kluwer Academic Publishers, Dordrecht, The Netherlands
(2002) 149-179.

N. I. M. Gould and Ph. L. Toint,
"An iterative working-set method for large-scale non-convex quadratic 
programming",
.I Applied Numerical Mathematics.
.B 43 (1-2)
(2002) 109-128.

A. R. Conn, N. I. M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph. L. Toint,
``A primal-dual trust-region algorithm for non-convex nonlinear optimization''.
.I Mathematical Programming 
.B 87 
(2)
(2000) 215-249.

.SH BUGS
Please report any bugs found to 
.IB n.gould@rl.ac.uk , 
along with any suggestions for improvements.
.SH AUTHORS
Nick Gould, Rutherford Appleton Laboratory, 
Dominique Orban, Ecole Polytechnique de Montreal,
and
Philippe Toint, University of Namur
