.\" @(#)cidh v1.0 11/2000;
.TH cidh 3M "17 Nov 2000"
.SH NAME
CIDH \- CUTEr tool to evaluate the Hessian of a problem function.
.SH SYNOPSIS
CALL CIDH( N, X, IPROB, LH1, H )
.SH DESCRIPTION
The CIDH subroutine evaluates the Hessian matrix of either the
objective function or a constraint function for the problem decoded
from a SIF file by the script \fIsifdecode\fP at the point X, and
possibly its gradient. The matrix is stored as a dense matrix.

The problem under consideration
consists in minimizing (or maximizing) an objective function
.EQ
f(x)
.EN
over all
.EQ
x
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
R sup n
.EN
subject to

general equations
.EQ
c sub i (x) ~=~ 0,
.EN
.EQ
~(i
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
left { 1 ,..., m sub E right } ),
.EN

general inequalities
.EQ
c sub i sup l (x) ~<=~ c sub i (x) ~<=~ c sub i sup u (x),
.EN
.EQ
~(i
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
left { m sub E + 1 ,..., m right }),
.EN

and simple bounds
.EQ
b sup l ~<=~ x ~<=~ b sup u.
.EN

The objective function is group-partially separable and all constraint functions are partially separable.
.LP 
.SH ARGUMENTS
The arguments of CIDH are as follows
.TP 5
.B N \fP[in] - integer
the number of variables for the problem,
.TP
.B X \fP[in] - real/double precision
an array which gives the current estimate of the solution of the
problem,
.TP
.B IRPOB \fP[in] - integer
the number of the problem function to be considered. If IPROB = 0, the
Hessian of the objective function will be evaluated, while if IPROB =
i > 0, that of the i-th constraint will be evaluated,
.TP
.B LH1 \fP[in] - integer
the actual declared size of the leading dimension of H (with LH1 no
smaller than N),
.TP
.B H \fP[out] - real/double precision
a two-dimensional array which gives the value of the required Hessian
matrix.
.LP
.SH AUTHORS
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fICUTEr (and SifDec): A Constrained and Unconstrained Testing
Environment, revisited\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   ACM TOMS, \fB29\fP:4, pp.373-394, 2003.

\fICUTE: Constrained and Unconstrained Testing Environment\fP,
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould and Ph.L. Toint, 
TOMS, \fB21\fP:1, pp.123-160, 1995.

sifdecode(1).
