.\" @(#)cofg v1.0 11/2000;
.TH cofg 3M "17 Nov 2000"
.SH NAME
COFG \- CUTEr tool to evaluate function value and possibly gradient.
.SH SYNOPSIS
CALL COFG( N, X, F, G, GRAD )
.SH DESCRIPTION
The COFG subroutine evaluates the value of the objective function of
the problem decoded from a SIF file by the script \fIsifdecode\fP
at the point X, and possibly its gradient.

The problem under consideration
consists in minimizing (or maximizing) an objective function
.EQ
f(x)
.EN
over all
.EQ
x
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
R sup n
.EN
subject to

general equations
.EQ
c sub i (x) ~=~ 0,
.EN
.EQ
~(i
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
left { 1 ,..., m sub E right } ),
.EN

general inequalities
.EQ
c sub i sup l (x) ~<=~ c sub i (x) ~<=~ c sub i sup u (x),
.EN
.EQ
~(i
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
left { m sub E + 1 ,..., m right }),
.EN

and simple bounds
.EQ
b sup l ~<=~ x ~<=~ b sup u.
.EN

The objective function is group-partially separable and all constraint functions are partially separable.

.LP 
.SH ARGUMENTS
The arguments of COFG are as follows
.TP 5
.B N \fP[in] - integer
the number of variables for the problem,
.TP
.B X \fP[in] - real/double precision
an array which gives the current estimate of the solution of the
problem,
.TP
.B F \fP[out] - real/double precision
the value of the objective function evaluated at X,
.TP
.B G \fP[out] - real/double precision
an array which gives the value of the gradient of the objective
function evaluated at X,
.TP
.B GRAD \fP[in] - logical
a logical variable which should be set to .TRUE. if the gradient of
the objective function is required and .FALSE. otherwise.
.LP 
.SH NOTE
A call to COFG is more efficient than two separate calls to CFN
and CGR.
.LP
.SH AUTHORS
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fICUTEr (and SifDec): A Constrained and Unconstrained Testing
Environment, revisited\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   ACM TOMS, \fB29\fP:4, pp.373-394, 2003.

\fICUTE: Constrained and Unconstrained Testing Environment\fP,
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould and Ph.L. Toint, 
TOMS, \fB21\fP:1, pp.123-160, 1995.

uofg(3M), sifdecode(1).
