.\" @(#)ccifg v1.0 11/2000;
.TH ccifg 3M "17 Nov 2000"
.SH NAME
CCIFG \- CUTEr tool to evaluate a single constraint function value and
possibly gradient.
.SH SYNOPSIS
CALL CCIFG( N, ICON, X, CI, GCI, GRAD )
.SH DESCRIPTION
The CCIFG subroutine evaluates the value of a particular constraint
function of the problem decoded from a SIF file by the script \fIsifdecode\fP at the point X, and
possibly its gradient in the constrained minimization case.
The problem under consideration
consists in minimizing (or maximizing) an objective function
.EQ
f(x)
.EN
over all
.EQ
x
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
R sup n
.EN
subject to

general equations
.EQ
c sub i (x) ~=~ 0,
.EN
.EQ
~(i
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
left { 1 ,..., m sub E right } ),
.EN

general inequalities
.EQ
c sub i sup l (x) ~<=~ c sub i (x) ~<=~ c sub i sup u (x),
.EN
.EQ
~(i
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
left { m sub E + 1 ,..., m right }),
.EN

and simple bounds
.EQ
b sup l ~<=~ x ~<=~ b sup u.
.EN

The objective function is group-partially separable and all constraint functions are partially separable.

.LP 
.SH ARGUMENTS
The arguments of CCIFG are as follows
.TP 5
.B N \fP[in] - integer
the number of variables for the problem,
.TP 5
.B ICON \fP[in] - integer
the index of the constraint function to be evaluated,
.TP
.B X \fP[in] - real/double precision
an array which gives the current estimate of the solution of the
problem,
.TP
.B CI \fP[out] - real/double precision
the value of constraint function ICON at X,
.TP
.B GCI \fP[out] - real/double precision
an array which gives the gradient of constraint function ICON
evaluated at X,
.TP
.B GRAD \fP[in] - logical
a logical variable which should be set .TRUE. if the gradient of the
constraint functions are required and .FALSE. otherwise.
.LP
.SH AUTHORS
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fICUTEr (and SifDec): A Constrained and Unconstrained Testing
Environment, revisited\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   ACM TOMS, \fB29\fP:4, pp.373-394, 2003.

\fICUTE: Constrained and Unconstrained Testing Environment\fP,
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould and Ph.L. Toint, 
TOMS, \fB21\fP:1, pp.123-160, 1995.

sifdecode(1)
