.\" @(#)cscifg v1.0 11/2000;
.TH cscifg 3M "17 Nov 2000"
.SH NAME
CSCIFG \- CUTEr tool to evaluate a single constraint function value and
possibly gradient in sparse format.
.SH SYNOPSIS
CALL CSCIFG( N, ICON, X, CI, NNZSGC, LSGCI, SGCI, IVSGCI, GRAD )
.SH DESCRIPTION
The CSCIFG subroutine evaluates the value of a particular constraint
function of the problem decoded from a SIF file by the script \fIsifdecode\fP
at the point X, and possibly its gradient. The gradient is stored in sparse
format.

The problem under consideration
consists in minimizing (or maximizing) an objective function
.EQ
f(x)
.EN
over all
.EQ
x
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
R sup n
.EN
subject to

general equations
.EQ
c sub i (x) ~=~ 0,
.EN
.EQ
~(i
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
left { 1 ,..., m sub E right } ),
.EN

general inequalities
.EQ
c sub i sup l (x) ~<=~ c sub i (x) ~<=~ c sub i sup u (x),
.EN
.EQ
~(i
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
left { m sub E + 1 ,..., m right }),
.EN

and simple bounds
.EQ
b sup l ~<=~ x ~<=~ b sup u.
.EN

The objective function is group-partially separable and all constraint functions are partially separable.

.LP
.SH NOTE
This function is obsolete and has been included for compatibility
purposes only. Refer to ccifsg(3M).
.LP
.SH AUTHORS
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fICUTEr (and SifDec): A Constrained and Unconstrained Testing
Environment, revisited\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   ACM TOMS, \fB29\fP:4, pp.373-394, 2003.

\fICUTE: Constrained and Unconstrained Testing Environment\fP,
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould and Ph.L. Toint, 
TOMS, \fB21\fP:1, pp.123-160, 1995.

sifdecode(1).