.\" @(#)usetup v1.0 11/2000;
.TH usetup 3M "17 Nov 2000"
.SH NAME
USETUP \- CUTEr tool to set up the data structures for unconstrained or bound-constrained minimization.
.SH SYNOPSIS
CALL USETUP( INPUT, IOUT, N, X, BL, BU, NMAX )
.SH DESCRIPTION
The USETUP subroutine sets up the correct data structures for
subsequent computations in the case where the only possible
constraints are bound constraints.

The problem under consideration
consists in minimizing (or maximizing) an objective function
.EQ
f(x)
.EN
over all
.EQ
x
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
R sup n
.EN
subject to the simple bounds
.EQ
b sup l ~<=~ x ~<=~ b sup u.
.EN
The objective function is group-partially separable.

.LP 
.SH ARGUMENTS
The arguments of USETUP are as follows
.TP 5
.B INPUT \fP[in] - integer
the unit number for the decoded data; the unit from which OUTSDIF.d is
read,
.TP
.B IOUT \fP[in] - integer
the unit number for any error messages,
.TP
.B N \fP[out] - integer
the number of variables for the problem,
.TP
.B X \fP[out] - real/double precision
an array which gives the initial estimate of the solution of the
problem,
.TP
.B BL \fP[out] - real/double precision
an array which gives lower bounds on the variables,
.TP
.B  BU \fP[out] - real/double precision
an array which gives upper bounds on the variables,
.TP
.B NMAX \fP[in] - integer
the actual declared dimension of X, BL and BU.
.LP
.SH APPLICATION USAGE
A call to USETUP must precede calls to other evaluation tools for
unconstrained and bound constrained problems.
.SH AUTHORS
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fICUTEr (and SifDec): A Constrained and Unconstrained Testing
Environment, revisited\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   ACM TOMS, \fB29\fP:4, pp.373-394, 2003.

\fICUTE: Constrained and Unconstrained Testing Environment\fP,
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould and Ph.L. Toint, 
TOMS, \fB21\fP:1, pp.123-160, 1995.

csetup(3M).
