.\" @(#)cprod v1.0 11/2000;
.TH cprod1 3M "13 Jan 2012"
.SH NAME
CPROD1 \- CUTEr tool to form the matrix-vector product of a vector with
the Hessian matrix of constraint part of the Lagrangian.
.SH SYNOPSIS
CALL CPROD1( N, M, GOTDER, X, LV, V, P, Q )
.SH DESCRIPTION
The CPROD1 subroutine forms the product of a vector with the Hessian
matrix of the constraint part of the Lagrangian function of the problem decoded
from a SIF file by the script \fIsifdecode\fP at the point X.

The problem under consideration
consists in minimizing (or maximizing) an objective function
.EQ
f(x)
.EN
over all
.EQ
x
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
R sup n
.EN
subject to

general equations
.EQ
c sub i (x) ~=~ 0,
.EN
.EQ
~(i
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
left { 1 ,..., m sub E right } ),
.EN

general inequalities
.EQ
c sub i sup l (x) ~<=~ c sub i (x) ~<=~ c sub i sup u (x),
.EN
.EQ
~(i
.EN
\(mo
.EQ
left { m sub E + 1 ,..., m right }),
.EN

and simple bounds
.EQ
b sup l ~<=~ x ~<=~ b sup u.
.EN

The objective function is group-partially separable and all constraint functions are partially separable.

By convention, given Lagrange multipliers V, the constraint part of the 
Lagrangian function is written as
.EQ
L(X, V) = < c(X), V >.
.EN
.LP 
.SH ARGUMENTS
The arguments of CPROD1 are as follows
.TP 5
.B N \fP[in] - integer
the number of variables for the problem,
.TP
.B M \fP[in] - integer
the total number of general constraints,
.TP
.B GOTDER \fP[in] - logical
a logical variable which specifies whether the first and second derivatives of
the groups and elements have already been set (GOTDER = .TRUE.) or if
they should be computed (GOTDER = .FALSE.),
.TP
.B X \fP[in] - real/double precision
when GOTDER = .FALSE., the derivatives will be evaluated at X. Otherwise
X is not used.
.TP
.B LV \fP[in] - integer
the actual declared dimension of V,
.TP
.B V \fP[in] - real/double precision
when GOTDER = .FALSE., the derivatives will be evaluated with Lagrange
multipliers V. Otherwise V is not used,
.TP
.B P \fP[in] - real/double precision
an array which gives the vector whose product with the Hessian is
required,
.TP
.B Q \fP[out] - real/double precision
an array which gives the result of multiplying the Hessian by P. 
.LP
.SH NOTE
GOTDER should be set to .TRUE. whenever
.TP 3
.B (1)\fP
a call has been made to CDH, CSH, CGRDH or CGRSH at the current
point, or
.TP
.B (2)\fP
a previous call to CPROD1, with GOTDER = .FALSE., at the current point has been made.
.TP
.B \fPOtherwise, it should be set .FALSE.
.LP
.SH AUTHORS
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fICUTEr (and SifDec): A Constrained and Unconstrained Testing
Environment, revisited\fP,
   N.I.M. Gould, D. Orban and Ph.L. Toint,
   ACM TOMS, \fB29\fP:4, pp.373-394, 2003.

\fICUTE: Constrained and Unconstrained Testing Environment\fP,
I. Bongartz, A.R. Conn, N.I.M. Gould and Ph.L. Toint, 
TOMS, \fB21\fP:1, pp.123-160, 1995.

cprod(3M), uprod(3M), sifdecode(1).
